Release 0.8.5
=============

Building package in a virtual environment does not install in a
virtual environment (restores 0.8.3 behavior).

Release 0.8.4
=============

Building package in a virtual environment installs in a virtual
environment.

Release 0.8.3
=============

Fixes various Unicode handling bugs.

Release 0.8.2
=============

Fixes a bug.

Release 0.8.1
=============

Fixes documentation bugs.

Release 0.8.0
=============

Removed "--force-buildsystem" option.

Release 0.7.1
=============

Fixes several bugs.

Release 0.7.0
=============

stdeb uses dh_python2 instead of dh_pysupport (thanks to Piotr
OÅ¼arowski).

A long time passed between releases, so there are probably backwards
incompatible changes that have crept in.

Release 0.6.0
=============

A new ``debianize`` command was added. This command builds a
``debian/`` directory alongside your setup.py file.

No backwards incompatible changes were made with this release.

Release 0.5.1
=============

This is a bugfix release. This fixes a bug that caused the
debian/control Description: field to be wrong.

No backwards incompatible changes were made with this release.

Release 0.5.0
=============

The following backwards incompatible changes were made:

* The --process-dependencies option to py2dsc was dropped, because
  this functionality went beyond the scope of the py2dsc script. The
  functionality could be added to a new script if desired.

* The ability to pass command options to sdist_dsc by specifying them
  to bdist_deb was removed. In other words, if you did this in the
  past::

    python setup.py bdist_deb --no-backwards-compatibility

  You must now do this::

    python setup.py sdist_dsc --no-backwards-compatibility bdist_deb

The deprecations were made:

* The stdeb.cfg file location has been moved from the .egg-info
  directory into the directory holding setup.py. The old location will
  work, but is deprecated and will be removed sometime in the future.

* Some options to the sdist_dsc command have now changed.
  (--default-maintiner should now be --maintainer,
  --default-distribution should now be --suite), although the old way
  will still work, as it is only deprecated for now.

Release 0.4.3
=============

This is a bugfix release. The most significant change is that by
default the "DH_OPTIONS=--buildsystem=python_distutils" environment
variable is passed to debhelper. This causes debhelper to ignore
Makefiles and forces use of "python setup.py install".

No backwards incompatible changes were made with this release.

Release 0.4.2
=============

This is a bugfix release fixing a couple issues. The most significant
fix is that if a package specified "XS-Python-Version" in stdeb.cfg,
the binary package wouldn't install the Python packages.

No backwards incompatible changes were made with this release.

Release 0.4.1
=============

This release maintains backward compatibility with old versions of
stdeb and debhelper, but stdeb now allows packages that don't carry
the cruft of backward compatibility. To disable all backwards
compatibility, specify the --no-backwards-compatibility flag. This
will set --pycentral-backwards-compatibility=False and
--workaround-548392=False. You may set these flags individually if
desired.

By "maintains backward compatibility with stdeb", I mean that newer
packages made with newer stdeb (0.4.1 and up) will properly upgrade
from older package made with older versions of stdeb (less than
0.4.0). The problem, in particular, is the migration from
python-central. See Debian bug #479852 for more information.
